JANE AUSTIN
(585) 216-5371
jayanthi.prasannas@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/jaypras
Experienced QA white-box tester in developing test automation frameworks for large-scale
projects from an end to end perspective including front end, middle tier services and back end
data providers that allow for consistently repeatable, reliable testing solutions.
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
8 years of experience in developing on-time delivery of projects in tight deadlines to test software on
cutting-edge and growing platforms in Java.
Well versed with QA standards and methodologies and hands-on knowledge in all phases of the
Software Development Life Cycle and Software Testing Life Cycle with critical eye to error-guessing.
Thorough understanding of Agile, Waterfall methodologies and industry best practices.
Strong ability to interpret business and functional requirements with minimal documentation.
In depth knowledge of automation testing using Junit, Selenium WebDriver, JDBC API,
SoapUI/Ready API tool; Exposure to testing Android mobile applications using Appium with Android
Studio.
Liaison with development teams, end-to-end test execution team and clients to ensure quality thresholds
are met.
Versatile development and testing experience in Telecommunications, Media, Merchandise and Jewelry
industries.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
▪
▪
▪
▪
Automation Tools: Selenium IDE/WebDriver/Grid, SoapUI,
Cucumber, Maven, Appium
Languages/Frameworks: Core Java, Junit, TestNG, Exposure
to XML, HTML5, JavaScript
Testing Methodologies: Unit Testing, Integration Testing, User
Interface Testing, System Testing, Performance/Load Testing,
Smoke Testing, Regression Testing, Database testing,
Acceptance Testing, Functionality Testing, communication, planning, teamwork
▪
▪
▪
IDE: Eclipse neon, Android Studio ▪
Bug tracking: JIRA
RDBMS: MS SQL Server, MySQL
Scripting: JavaScript
OS: Windows 7/10
CAREER HISTORY
Software Development Engineer in Test (SDET) [Technologies Used: Java 8.0, Selenium WebDriver/Grid,
MySQL Workbench 6.3 CE, Maven, Jenkins, Tomcat Server 8, Junit, TestNG, Apache-POI, Cucumber, Eclipse neon]
Sansa Technology LLC, Dublin, California
Page 1 | 4
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
Enhanced the community-based web-portal SansaAds by participating in all aspects of full lifecycle
development methodology and related quality concepts and processes.
Involved in reviewing business and functional requirements to produce strategies and cases.
Identified modules for white-box testing and involved in design, build, test and deployment of effective
test automation solutions using Selenium WebDriver, Java, TestNG, Cucumber, Maven.
Implemented Page Object Model framework to represent web pages; Developed BDD tests using
Cucumber; Performed all aspects of verification (functional, structural, regression and system testing).
Developed Hybrid framework, a combination of Keyword Driven and Data Driven frameworks to retrieve
test actions, test data from Excel files and SQL Databases; testing done in multi-tiered based
architecture; Parallel testing done using Selenium Grid; Created HTML reports using ExtentReports.
Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment, assisting the team by providing automation strategies
and implementing improvements; Performed Defect tracking and Management in JIRA and generated
automated daily/weekly reports.
Module Lead [Technologies Used: Sun Solaris, JDK1.4, PL/SQL, Servlets, EJB 2.0, Oracle 9i, ANT, Log4J, Eclipse
3.0, MSynergy, WebLogic Server 8.1 SP4]
Verizon Data Services, India and USA
▪
Lead a team of 7 engineers to design and develop complete validation engine of telecommunication
system AccOrd-Enhancement using Java and XMLBeans.
▪
Lead the team in requirements specification calls with responsibility of signing off Business
Requirements Documents (BRD). Preparation of LOE and detailed design documents.
▪
Lead the team to enhance the performance of production database in co-ordination with the on-site
team; Involved in the production support, process improvements, testing approaches and played an
important role in fixing and deploying production related patches.
▪
Lead team for day to day execution of all software quality assurance deliverables. Build QA Allocation
plans and worked on steps required for mitigation on delivery risks during execution phase.
▪
Involved in end-to-end testing and problem fixing of application.
Senior Program Analyst [Technologies Used: JAVA, SQL 8.0, PLSQL 8.1.6, STRUTS, EJB (including MDB),
Servlet, Toad, Eclipse, BEA Web Logic-8.1, UNIX]
Verizon Data Services, India
▪
One of the key senior members to reengineer the Access Ordering System from PL/SQL to new system
using J2EE.; Involved in review meetings for the design documents created for developing the system
in web based platform.
▪
Supervised a five-member software QA testing team in developing and implementing quality-assurance
and quality-control methodologies to ensure compliance with QA standards, federal regulations and
customer specifications.
▪
Developed a Webservice for invocation of Access Validation Engine using WebLogic integration.
▪
Responsible for onsite delivery to client, effort estimation and competency development.
▪
Involved in production support and played an important role in fixing production issues.
Program Analyst [Technologies Used: JAVA, SQL 8.0, PLSQL 8.1.6, STRUTS, EJB (including MDB), Servlet, Toad,
Eclipse, BEA Web Logic-8.1, UNIX]
Silverline Technologies Inc., India
▪
Project: CAFÉ for client: Verizon Inc., USA
--Technologies Used: RS6000 on AIX, Novell Server (File Server, DX/Pentium Workstations), Windows
2000 Client/Server, UNIX, Developer 2000, C, Pro*C SQL* Net, Oracle 8i, PVCS
Page 2 | 4
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
--Worked in the maintenance of mainframe based Carrier Access Billing System and a Service Order
Provisioning system, to receive ASRs from the long-distance customers of Verizon
Telecommunications.
--Played major role in all SDLC activities: Impact analysis, Design and Development.
--Responsible for impact analysis reviews; Designed and implemented test cases, functional rules as
per BRD addressing areas including database impacts, software scenarios, regression testing, negative
testing, error/bug retests and usability.
Project: Able Master for client: Able Master Inc., Hong Kong, China
--Technologies Used: Java 2.0, JSP, HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, MS-SQL SERVER 7.0,
MS-SQL SERVER 8.0, Visual Source Safe 6.0, Erwin 3.1, Adobe Photoshop, Macromedia Dream
weaver 4.0, Seagate Crystal Reports 8.0, Rational Rose.
--Developed a multi-lingual web-based jewelry application with integrated accounting for the client Able
Master Ltd., which is a part of Mabelle group, a retail giant in Hong Kong.
--Involved in Database Designing; Developing Prototype; Designing and Coding of UI screens, dynamic
Reports; Preparation of traceability matrix; design and code reviews.
--Performed system, unit, performance, load, regression, stress and data interface testing.
--Provided client developer teams with detailed reports on quality metrics, identified bugs/flaws and
recommended fixes leading to a no-fault audit finding.
Project: Merchandise Activity Planning System for client: Stirling Douglas Group Inc., Canada
--Technologies Used: Visual Basic 6.0, Oracle 8i, Visual Source Safe Version Control, TOAD.
--Developed a 3-tier planning architecture for the retail industry that allows clients to look data at a 3D
perspective.
--Responsible for project planning/estimation, coding, technical discussions, creating design
documents, design walkthroughs, coding, technical reviews and code walkthroughs, testing,
implementation, defect prevention activities and maintaining project metrics.
--Involved in white-box testing, smoke testing, exploratory testing, GUI testing, negative testing and
simplification of data query and retrieval using Oracle.
Project: Web based Time Tracking and Efforts Monitoring System for client: Silverline Technologies
Inc., USA
--Technologies Used: ASP, HTML, Java Script, VB Script, Seagate Crystal Reports 8.0, SQL Server
7.0.
--Developed a web-based tool for the project managers to manage their projects effectively viz.,
monitoring, tracking the efforts and issues related to a project.
-- Analyzed business requirements, conducted gap analysis, estimated project scope and worked
closely with fellow developers to deliver high-quality software solution.
Project: Resume Processing System for client: Silverline Technologies Inc., USA
--Technologies Used: ASP, HTML, VB Script, Java Script, SQL Server 7.0
--Developed a web-based package for a human resource consultant having a large clientele base.
--Responsible for analysis, designing of normalized tables, coding and testing of the system at all
levels.
--Involved in peer review and documenting the review summary and refactoring the code.
Project: FDC-IV for client: First Data Corporation, USA
--Technologies Used: HTML, 8086 AL, ASP, Java Script, C, C++
, EXAMDIFF, WINDIFF, SR-32, SUPER
TEXT SEARCH, MS Office
--Involved largely in analysis of Y2K date fields in codes written in various languages.
--Responsible for the analysis of Programs in various languages to identify non-compliance and
correcting them. They include programs in the COBOL, Rexx, SAS, Easytrieve, TCL, Assembler,
DYL280 programs.
Page 3 | 4
CERTIFICATIONS & EDUCATION
ISTQB Certified Tester, Foundation Level (CTFL)
MBA, Human Resources Management
Master of Science in Computer Technology, Coimbatore Institute of Technology, India
Bachelor of Science in Computer Technology, Coimbatore Institute of technology, India
Page 4 | 4